Europe is also pushing Israel to agree
on terms for a post-war future the
European Parliament has adopted a
resolution calling for a permanent
ceasefire but the resolution contains
the stipulation that Hamas designated as
a terrorist group by the EU must be
first
dismantled and that all Israeli hostages
kidnapped by Hamas during the October
7th Terror attacks on Southern Israel
must be released the resolution also
calls for renewed efforts to find a
lasting political solution to the
conflict let's get more now from
Brussels DW cross bruss DW Brussels
correspondant Jack perck Jack sorry for
messing that intro up but how
significant is this resolution by the
European Parliament calling for a Gaza
ceasefire yeah it's it's pretty
significant symbolically but practically
and legally not very significant at all
uh the 312 MEPS of the 705 in in the
European Parliament voted in favor there
were a number of abstentions and also a
number of no-shows as well so it's not
like a massively overwhelming majority
and like I say it doesn't legally bind
the European Union it isn't an overall
EU position this is not a vote by the
governments of the European Union and as
you mentioned the stipulations that the
center right um politicians within the
European Parliament insisted on which
was the call for the dismantling of the
Hamas terrorist organization and the
release of all hostages those conditions
to get the vote over the line which
meant that many of them voted in favor
were were what the Israelis were
basically saying that they could accept
this vote that they would want to
permanent ceasefire we've heard that
from the Israeli um mission to the
European Union they've said that this
vote basically Falls in line that they
want to permanent ceasefire if Hamas is
dismantled and if all of the hostages
are released so this was a resolution of
the EU Parliament but does that mean
that member states are also United on
this
issue not really no uh that's where
we're seeing real divisions the European
Parliament there were obviously a number
of people voting against it in the in
the parament as well but the EU
countries so the 27 countries of the
European Union are divided we're seeing
countries like Ireland and Belgium for
instance who are very keen for a
ceasefire have also considered backing
South Africa's claim uh for the look
into uh accusations of Israel of
genocide by Israel in Gaza at the
international court of justice that case
taking place last week other countries
for instance Germany are much closer in
line with the Israel position of the
right to self-defense all countries say
that Israel has the right to defend
itself but others are putting and for
instance Ireland and Belgium are putting
significant pressure on the European
Union to put pressure on the Israelis to
to bring about a ceasefire
I mean you did call this resolution
significant but how much influence does
the EU really have with Israel right now
given that we've just seen Israel
publicly defying its closest and most
powerful Ally the United
States I don't think there's any
delusions here in Brussels or in the
sort of corridors of power in the
European Union that the real power and
the real influence um on the Israeli uh
government comes from the United States
but they don't want to step back from
this issue because they firstly have you
know strong uh ties there is a strong
sentiment among EU citizens on this
issue as well so they don't want to stay
disengaged they don't want to look like
they're disengaging in any way while
they're aware probably that resolutions
like this aren't really going to uh put
too much influence on the Israeli
government which which as I say is is
really looking to its strongest
supporter and strongest Ally in the
United States Jack perck we leave it
there but thanks so much for that
context